README.md, before:

# speech-nlp-datasets
Contains links to publicly available datasets for modeling health outcomes using speech and language.

## Speech-based Corpora
- [[Corpus]](https://lindat.mff.cuni.cz/repository/xmlui/handle/11372/LRT-1597) **Speech Database of Typical Children and Children with SLI**  <br>
Contains 103 children that are native Czech speakers with specific language impairment.
[(Grill et al., 2016)](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4786280/)

- [[Corpus]](https://www.nature.com/articles/sdata201611#usage-notes)
**mPower Study, Parkinson's Disease Data** <br>
Contains audio recorings of 800+ subjects with Parkinson's disease (+ controls) performing a structured mobile phone based test composed of voice, walking, tapping, and memory. Data collection study was performed by ([Bot et al., (2016)](https://www.nature.com/articles/sdata201611))

- [[Corpus]](http://dcapswoz.ict.usc.edu) **Distress Analysis Interview Corpus** <br>
Contains 189, 20-min long interviews of individuals speaking to a virtual agent. The corpus contains binary and multi-class labels for the severity of depression. The dataset contains audio recordings and features, text transcript, and facial features. The corpus was developed by [Gratch et al., (2014)](http://www.lrec-conf.org/proceedings/lrec2014/pdf/508_Paper.pdf) and featured in the [Audio Visual Emotion Challenge (AVEC) 2016, 2017](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3133953)

- [[Corpus]](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/LSVT+Voice+Rehabilitation) **Oxford LSVT Voice Rehabilitation Data Set** <br>
Contains 14 subjects with Parkinson's Disease used to evaluate whether voice rehabilitation improves phonation. [(Tsanas et al., (2014))](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6678640)

- **Spanish Parkinson Corpus** (contact [authors](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Juan_Rafael_Orozco/publication/265592171_New_Spanish_speech_corpus_database_for_the_analysis_of_people_suffering_from_Parkinson's_disease/links/5497130f0cf29b944826211a/New-Spanish-speech-corpus-database-for-the-analysis-of-people-suffering-from-Parkinsons-disease.pdf) for corpus?)  <br>
Contains 50 subjects with varying severity of Parkinson's, speaking Spanish. Corpus was first presented by [(Arroyave et al., (2014))](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Juan_Rafael_Orozco/publication/265592171_New_Spanish_speech_corpus_database_for_the_analysis_of_people_suffering_from_Parkinson's_disease/links/5497130f0cf29b944826211a/New-Spanish-speech-corpus-database-for-the-analysis-of-people-suffering-from-Parkinsons-disease.pdf) and subsequently featured in the [Interspeech 2015 Computational Paralinguistics Challenge](https://www.mmk.ei.tum.de/fileadmin/w00bqn/www/Publikationen/is2015_compare.pdf).

- [[Corpus]](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Parkinson+Speech+Dataset+with++Multiple+Types+of+Sound+Recordings#) **Parkinson Speech Dataset with Multiple Types of Sound Recordings Data Set**  <br>
Contains audio recordings from 40 subjects (including 20 control) generating sounds accordings to a transcript (sustained vowel, numbers, short sentences, words) from Turkey. [(Sakar et al., (2013))](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6451090)

- [[Corpus]](http://www.demcare.eu/results/datasets)
**Dem@Care** <br>
Dataset that contains audio, video, physiologic signals of Greek dementia patients in the lab or their home. ([Factsheet](http://www.demcare.eu/downloads/Dem@Care-fp7factsheet%20PHS.pdf))

- [[Corpus]](http://www.cs.toronto.edu/~complingweb/data/TORGO/torgo.html) 
**TORGO Databse** <br>
Contains speech and articulatory data on 7 subjects with Cerebral Palsy or Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. [(Rudzicz et al., (2010)](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/225446742_The_TORGO_database_of_acoustic_and_articulatory_speech_from_speakers_with_dysarthria))

- **Child Pathological Speech Database (CPSD)** (contact [authors](http://www.isir.upmc.fr/files/2010ACLI1641.pdf) for corpus?) <br>
Contains speech recordings from 99 children on the autism spectrum or language impairmet (specific or not). <br>
Original paper describing the corpus by [Ringeval et al., (2010)](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/5613153) and was also made available for the [Interspeech 2013 Computational Paralinguistic Challenge](https://www.isca-speech.org/iscapad/iscapad.php?module=article&id=4580&back=p,180).

- [[Corpus]](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Parkinsons+Telemonitoring)  **Oxford Parkinson's Telemonitoring Dataset** <br>
Monitoring of 42 people with early-stage Parkinson's disease recruited to a six-month trial of a telemonitoring device for remote symptom progression monitoring. [(Tsanas et al., (2009))](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/5339170)

- [[Corpus]](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/parkinsons) **Oxford Parkinson Dataset** <br>
Contains recordings from 31 individuals. [(Little et al., (2007))](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1913514/)

- [[Corpus]](http://www.stimmdatenbank.coli.uni-saarland.de/help_en.php4) **Saarbruecken Voice Database**  <br>
A collection of speech recordings from more than 2,000 people following a transcript of pronouncing vowels and a sentence. Each recording has an associated EEG signal. A subset of the speakers have a pathology (e.g. Laryngitis, Parkinson's disease). Citation: [Barry, W. J., & Pützer, M. (2007). Saarbrucken voice database. Institute of Phonetics, Universität des Saarlandes, http://www. stimmdatenbank. coli. uni-saarland. de.](http://www.stimmdatenbank.coli.uni-saarland.de.) <br>
Example work: [Martínez et al., 2012](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/David_Martinez30/publication/258847633_Voice_Pathology_Detection_on_the_Saarbrucken_Voice_Database_with_Calibration_and_Fusion_of_Scores_Using_MultiFocal_Toolkit/links/00b495293a43b3c12f000000.pdf) 


## TalkBank Project
- [[Corpus]](https://childes.talkbank.org/access/Clinical/) **CHILDES Database**  <br>
Contains speech of children with different conditions (e.g. Autism, Down's syndrome, hearing impairment) and across different languages (e.g. English, Dutch, Greek, Mandarin). <br>
[MacWhinney, B. (2014). The CHILDES project: Tools for analyzing talk, Volume II: The database. Psychology Press.](http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.259.8262&rep=rep1&type=pdf)

- [[Corpus]](https://dementia.talkbank.org/access/) **DementiaBank** (from TalkBank)  <br>
Contains recordings of individuals with dementia across different languages. Includes around 400 subjects, most notable in size and containing control subjects is:
  - [English Pitt](https://dementia.talkbank.org/access/English/Pitt.html): Longitudinal neuropsychological assessments of 319 subjects (dementia + control) performing Cookie Theft, Word Fluency, Story Recall, and Sentence Construction task. [(Becker et al., 1994)](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8198470)

- [[Corpus]](https://talkbank.org) **Clinical TalkBank** <br>
In addition to [DementiaBank](https://dementia.talkbank.org/access/), TalkBank contains: 
  - [RHDBank](https://rhd.talkbank.org) individuals with Right-Hemisphere Disorder 
  - [TBIBank](https://tbi.talkbank.org) individuals with Traumatic Brain Injury
  - [AphasiaBank](https://aphasia.talkbank.org) a communication disorder affecting ability to speak, write, and understand language due to some trauma to language parts of the brain.
  - [FluencyBank](https://fluency.talkbank.org) contains individuals with language disfluencies due to being a second language learner, or due to stuttering.

## Text-based Corpora
- [[Corpus]](https://mimic.mit.edu) 
**MIMIC III** (Medical Information Mart for Intensive Care) <br>
 Contains medical details and outcomes of 40,000+ patients (e.g. demographics, vital signs, laboratory tests, medications) as well as 2M+ free-text written medical notes from medical personnel (e.g. physicians, nurses, etc.). ([Johnson et al., (2016)](https://www.nature.com/articles/sdata201635)).
 
 - **i2b2/UTHealth NLP Task** (contact [authors](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26433122) for corpus?) <br>
 Contains emergency medical records for 296 patients at Partners HealthCare and medical discharge and correspondance notes between medical personnel. [Kumar et al., (2014)](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26433122) describes how the data was processed, and [Stubbs et al. (2014)](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1532046415001409#b0050) describes the 2014 task of identifying risk factors for heart disease over time.
 
 - **Nun Study** (contact [authors](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8606473) for corpus?) <br>
 Diaries of 93 nuns to used to evaluate cognitive impairment (Alzheimer's disease) in later life. Also contains neuropsychology tests and autopsy information. Study was authored by ([Snowdon et al.,(1996)](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/03a9/2b940974756d0dbc4fa1a08f05b31ec9f18f.pdf))

Commit message:

ALS Voice Data Set is added.

README.md, after:

# speech-nlp-datasets
Contains links to publicly available datasets for modeling health outcomes using speech and language.

## Speech-based Corpora
- [[Corpus]](https://lindat.mff.cuni.cz/repository/xmlui/handle/11372/LRT-1597) **Speech Database of Typical Children and Children with SLI**  <br>
Contains 103 children that are native Czech speakers with specific language impairment.
[(Grill et al., 2016)](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4786280/)

- [[Corpus]](https://www.nature.com/articles/sdata201611#usage-notes)
**mPower Study, Parkinson's Disease Data** <br>
Contains audio recorings of 800+ subjects with Parkinson's disease (+ controls) performing a structured mobile phone based test composed of voice, walking, tapping, and memory. Data collection study was performed by ([Bot et al., (2016)](https://www.nature.com/articles/sdata201611))

- [[Corpus]](http://dcapswoz.ict.usc.edu) **Distress Analysis Interview Corpus** <br>
Contains 189, 20-min long interviews of individuals speaking to a virtual agent. The corpus contains binary and multi-class labels for the severity of depression. The dataset contains audio recordings and features, text transcript, and facial features. The corpus was developed by [Gratch et al., (2014)](http://www.lrec-conf.org/proceedings/lrec2014/pdf/508_Paper.pdf) and featured in the [Audio Visual Emotion Challenge (AVEC) 2016, 2017](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3133953)

- [[Corpus]](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/LSVT+Voice+Rehabilitation) **Oxford LSVT Voice Rehabilitation Data Set** <br>
Contains 14 subjects with Parkinson's Disease used to evaluate whether voice rehabilitation improves phonation. [(Tsanas et al., (2014))](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6678640)

- **Spanish Parkinson Corpus** (contact [authors](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Juan_Rafael_Orozco/publication/265592171_New_Spanish_speech_corpus_database_for_the_analysis_of_people_suffering_from_Parkinson's_disease/links/5497130f0cf29b944826211a/New-Spanish-speech-corpus-database-for-the-analysis-of-people-suffering-from-Parkinsons-disease.pdf) for corpus?)  <br>
Contains 50 subjects with varying severity of Parkinson's, speaking Spanish. Corpus was first presented by [(Arroyave et al., (2014))](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Juan_Rafael_Orozco/publication/265592171_New_Spanish_speech_corpus_database_for_the_analysis_of_people_suffering_from_Parkinson's_disease/links/5497130f0cf29b944826211a/New-Spanish-speech-corpus-database-for-the-analysis-of-people-suffering-from-Parkinsons-disease.pdf) and subsequently featured in the [Interspeech 2015 Computational Paralinguistics Challenge](https://www.mmk.ei.tum.de/fileadmin/w00bqn/www/Publikationen/is2015_compare.pdf).

- [[Corpus]](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Parkinson+Speech+Dataset+with++Multiple+Types+of+Sound+Recordings#) **Parkinson Speech Dataset with Multiple Types of Sound Recordings Data Set**  <br>
Contains audio recordings from 40 subjects (including 20 control) generating sounds accordings to a transcript (sustained vowel, numbers, short sentences, words) from Turkey. [(Sakar et al., (2013))](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6451090)

- [[Corpus]](http://www.demcare.eu/results/datasets)
**Dem@Care** <br>
Dataset that contains audio, video, physiologic signals of Greek dementia patients in the lab or their home. ([Factsheet](http://www.demcare.eu/downloads/Dem@Care-fp7factsheet%20PHS.pdf))

- [[Corpus]](http://www.cs.toronto.edu/~complingweb/data/TORGO/torgo.html) 
**TORGO Databse** <br>
Contains speech and articulatory data on 7 subjects with Cerebral Palsy or Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. [(Rudzicz et al., (2010)](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/225446742_The_TORGO_database_of_acoustic_and_articulatory_speech_from_speakers_with_dysarthria))

- **Child Pathological Speech Database (CPSD)** (contact [authors](http://www.isir.upmc.fr/files/2010ACLI1641.pdf) for corpus?) <br>
Contains speech recordings from 99 children on the autism spectrum or language impairmet (specific or not). <br>
Original paper describing the corpus by [Ringeval et al., (2010)](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/5613153) and was also made available for the [Interspeech 2013 Computational Paralinguistic Challenge](https://www.isca-speech.org/iscapad/iscapad.php?module=article&id=4580&back=p,180).

- [[Corpus]](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Parkinsons+Telemonitoring)  **Oxford Parkinson's Telemonitoring Dataset** <br>
Monitoring of 42 people with early-stage Parkinson's disease recruited to a six-month trial of a telemonitoring device for remote symptom progression monitoring. [(Tsanas et al., (2009))](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/5339170)

- [[Corpus]](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/parkinsons) **Oxford Parkinson Dataset** <br>
Contains recordings from 31 individuals. [(Little et al., (2007))](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1913514/)

- [[Corpus]](http://www.stimmdatenbank.coli.uni-saarland.de/help_en.php4) **Saarbruecken Voice Database**  <br>
A collection of speech recordings from more than 2,000 people following a transcript of pronouncing vowels and a sentence. Each recording has an associated EEG signal. A subset of the speakers have a pathology (e.g. Laryngitis, Parkinson's disease). Citation: [Barry, W. J., & Pützer, M. (2007). Saarbrucken voice database. Institute of Phonetics, Universität des Saarlandes, http://www. stimmdatenbank. coli. uni-saarland. de.](http://www.stimmdatenbank.coli.uni-saarland.de.) <br>
Example work: [Martínez et al., 2012](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/David_Martinez30/publication/258847633_Voice_Pathology_Detection_on_the_Saarbrucken_Voice_Database_with_Calibration_and_Fusion_of_Scores_Using_MultiFocal_Toolkit/links/00b495293a43b3c12f000000.pdf) 

- [[Corpus]](<https://github.com/Mak-Sim/Troparion/tree/master/SPA2019>) **ALS Voice Data Set** <br>
Contains voice recordings of 54 speakers, with 39 healthy speakers (23 males, 16 females) and 15 ALS patients with signs of bulbar dysfunction (6 males, 9 females). [(Vashkevich et al., (2019))](https://www.bsuir.by/m/12_100229_1_139167.pdf) 

## TalkBank Project
- [[Corpus]](https://childes.talkbank.org/access/Clinical/) **CHILDES Database**  <br>
Contains speech of children with different conditions (e.g. Autism, Down's syndrome, hearing impairment) and across different languages (e.g. English, Dutch, Greek, Mandarin). <br>
[MacWhinney, B. (2014). The CHILDES project: Tools for analyzing talk, Volume II: The database. Psychology Press.](http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.259.8262&rep=rep1&type=pdf)

- [[Corpus]](https://dementia.talkbank.org/access/) **DementiaBank** (from TalkBank)  <br>
Contains recordings of individuals with dementia across different languages. Includes around 400 subjects, most notable in size and containing control subjects is:
  - [English Pitt](https://dementia.talkbank.org/access/English/Pitt.html): Longitudinal neuropsychological assessments of 319 subjects (dementia + control) performing Cookie Theft, Word Fluency, Story Recall, and Sentence Construction task. [(Becker et al., 1994)](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8198470)

- [[Corpus]](https://talkbank.org) **Clinical TalkBank** <br>
In addition to [DementiaBank](https://dementia.talkbank.org/access/), TalkBank contains: 
  - [RHDBank](https://rhd.talkbank.org) individuals with Right-Hemisphere Disorder 
  - [TBIBank](https://tbi.talkbank.org) individuals with Traumatic Brain Injury
  - [AphasiaBank](https://aphasia.talkbank.org) a communication disorder affecting ability to speak, write, and understand language due to some trauma to language parts of the brain.
  - [FluencyBank](https://fluency.talkbank.org) contains individuals with language disfluencies due to being a second language learner, or due to stuttering.

## Text-based Corpora
- [[Corpus]](https://mimic.mit.edu) 
**MIMIC III** (Medical Information Mart for Intensive Care) <br>
 Contains medical details and outcomes of 40,000+ patients (e.g. demographics, vital signs, laboratory tests, medications) as well as 2M+ free-text written medical notes from medical personnel (e.g. physicians, nurses, etc.). ([Johnson et al., (2016)](https://www.nature.com/articles/sdata201635)).
 
 - **i2b2/UTHealth NLP Task** (contact [authors](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26433122) for corpus?) <br>
 Contains emergency medical records for 296 patients at Partners HealthCare and medical discharge and correspondance notes between medical personnel. [Kumar et al., (2014)](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26433122) describes how the data was processed, and [Stubbs et al. (2014)](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1532046415001409#b0050) describes the 2014 task of identifying risk factors for heart disease over time.
 
 - **Nun Study** (contact [authors](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8606473) for corpus?) <br>
 Diaries of 93 nuns to used to evaluate cognitive impairment (Alzheimer's disease) in later life. Also contains neuropsychology tests and autopsy information. Study was authored by ([Snowdon et al.,(1996)](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/03a9/2b940974756d0dbc4fa1a08f05b31ec9f18f.pdf))
